
tableau comp scal/non-scal de rees ou horst
transparents Scott ffag04
next year FFAG wrkshp will address pDrivers, probably mostly based on non-scaling non-linear


FFAG ESS
GRees
- ESS 5MW ring proposal. Was stopped by Rees. The reason was pb for injecting. Need a 8m straight section to 
have clean injection. Such long drift not possible, more generally symmetry of the radial sector 
FFAG is a strong constraint, changing a drift length would break the scaling, the drift length is 
linked to the other parameters (cf. Machida). 
Therefore, too small drift in the FFAG scheme do not allow clean multiturn injection, which is 
not tolerable at that level of power, power loss would be out of range. 
Extraction would be feasible because it is a single turn (using fast kicker) xtraction. 
- RCS scheme has been studued for SNS, and abandonned. 


RCS
GRees
The specs on RCS depend on energy of utilisation


Hadrontherapy. Discuss Mori. 
- Intensity. 
It is evident that doctors complain about lack of intensity at synchrotrons in Japan. 
One reason is when the treatment needs 
synchronization on breathing, in this case a long time is lost waiting, therefore want to decrease 
irradiation time to improve overall treatment speed. Some cases take an hour due to lack of I. 
- Cyclotrons. 
Cyclotron at MGH has problems, Mori knows that the number of treatments is low since it started, 
due to problems with machine stability. 
There is an example of 70% xtraction efficiency in a IBA cyclotron. 
FFAG would provide a way to higher intensity. 


Discuss horst/HHH
Cibler les Q qui sont posées => Connaitre les param installations concernées = faut-il inj au PS ou remplace PS. Idem p. GSI. Il 
y a les design des RCS pDriver neutrino. 



------------------------
Mes réflex. 
Si anneau ESS entre dans catégorie RCS ça donne une vue de la corresp av. ffag


------------------
Discuss avec Ric Baartman

nu_r is equal to gamma in isochronous lattices, like in cyclotron, this is because one cannot escape the 
law that B/B_0 = 1/ sqrt(1 - R/R_{v=c})^2, see his talk at Fermi FFAG workshop. 
... it results that nu_r=gamma
Muon ffag just work in the faraway region in the curve  B(gamma), over a small Delta-gamma (and hence Delta-R) region. 